# Tethering

The drone this experimentation was performed with was an DJI Inspire 1 a.k.a. "Terrifying Beast". The fate of the drone in the context of this project is that even after all of our attempts of getting it under control, a seeming period of calm predictability ended in a sudden drift across the room and into a wall at the exhibition site in Tokyo. Andreas' finger was cut up in the process, and it was decided that it would be better to trade the Inspire in for a much more managable Mavic Pro drone. The Mavic was extremely stable and much quieter. 

# Some things we learned
The drone has two main flight modes between which you can switch: ATTI and OPTI/GPS. ATTI uses sonar to maintain a steady distance from the floor, but makes no use of the ground camera to stabilize itself horizontally. It also does not use GPS. OPTI/GPS uses GPS positioning by default. presumably in addition to ground camera and sonar. Whenever the drone does not receive a GPS signal, it switches to OPTI mode, which uses the ground camera and sonar to maintain its position both vertically and horizontally to a high degree of accuracy. It is OPTI mode that is required for this project. The problem is that OPTI mode cannot be seperately entered without risking entering GPS mode. GPS mode is fine when there is no GPS signal at all, or there is very good GPS reception (GPS = a weak microwave signal emitted by satellites). The drone is stable in those cases. However, if you are receiving a little bit of GPS signals every now and then, for example as it is sporadically bounced into a building through a window or so, then the drone will position itself according to this sporadic and unreliable GPS signal, which may well tell it that it is a few meters from where it is supposed to be whenever a signal-reflecting truck passes by down the road, or whatever else. This, at least, is my hypothesis for why the drone would fly randomly about the room all of a sudden. We addressed this problem by opening the drone up and wrapping the GPS antenna in an insulating layer of plastic foil followed by a EM-wave shielding layer of aluminum foil. This appeared to put the drone reliably in opti mode. Disconnecting the GPS antenna results in an error that prevents the drone from starting. That OPTI and GPS mode can not be simultaneously entered strikes me as a major design flaw. 

During the flight tests with the tethered drone, the main worry was that the battery would overheat and turn into a fire or explosion hazard. The app provides a battery monitor, hence we monitored battery temperature throughout the flight. As a bonus, when the battery has been successfully tethered, the energy is supplied entirely by the external power supply and the battery reaches room temperature. This is visible in the data recorded here. During an initial test, we noticed that the battery was still discharging, perhaps indicating that the power supplied by the power supply was insufficient. We didn't test long enough to actually establish that. The voltage that should reach the drone should never exceed the voltage that the charger gives out in order to not overload the battery. In the end we achieved stable tethering with a GWS500-24 power supply adjusted to a voltage I now forget. Sorry. If you need it, write me an email and I'll find a multimeter...
